doc/faq/why_mindboggle.rst, before:

.. _mindboggle-faq:

======
 Why?
======

.. _purpose:

Purpose
-------

The purpose of Mindboggle is to improve the accuracy, precision, and
consistency of labeling and morphometry of brain imaging data,
and to promote open science by making all data, software, and documentation
freely and openly available.


.. _motivation:

Motivation
----------

There is a strong tendency for neuroscientists who are not software developers
to assume that questions of brain image "preprocessing", including registration
and labeling, have been satisfactorily resolved or are not even worthy of mention
([carp2012]_).  We believe that conventional methods do not establish 
reasonable correspondences across brain images and threaten to undermine the 
credibility of the science and the scientists who use them in the service of 
answering the neuroscientific and clinical questions that interest them.

.. [carp2012]
   Carp, J. (2012) *The secret lives of experiments: 
   Methods reporting in the fMRI literature*. NeuroImage, 63(1), 289–300.
   doi:10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.07.004


.. _history:

History
-------

Back in 1998, Arno Klein left Caltech to visit Cornell Medical School for a summer,
to learn a bit about human brain imaging.  Within a day of arriving in New York, 
he witnessed two medical students arguing over what regions of a patient's brain 
were active according to fMRI BOLD data printed on some sheets of paper.
To do this, they compared locations of BOLD signal in the young man's 
brain with what appeared to them to be corresponding topographical locations 
in the 2-D slices of a dead, 60-year French woman's half cerebrum from 20 years prior,
the venerable Talairach atlas.  That clinched it.
Arno stayed on to create the initial Mindboggle software package in Matlab
as part of his doctoral dissertation.

In 2007, Arno was invited to join the faculty at Columbia University
to continue its development, whereupon he started writing proposals.

In 2009, with generous funding from the National Institute of Mental Health
(3-year NIMH R01 #MH084029), he assembled a team to tackle the problem anew.
People who have contributed to the codebase during this period include:
 
    - Forrest Sheng Bao
    - Satrajit S. Ghosh
    - Joachim Giard
    - Yrjö Häme
    - Eliezer Stavsky

In 2012, the NIMH funded a 1-year U01 supplement to expand this work to 
integrate multiple imaging modalities (fMRI and dMRI) with the structural MRI 
shape analysis.  Joining this effort will be:

    - Nolan Nichols

For more information about the Mindboggle team, see http://mindboggle.info/people/.

Commit message:

Major revision: Add non-cortex labels; replace FreeSurfer gray matter fill; remove protocol directory; fix transforms, clean up nipype workflow and directory tree, improve documentation,…
Major revision: Add non-cortex labels; replace FreeSurfer gray matter
fill; remove protocol directory; fix transforms, clean up nipype
workflow and directory tree, improve documentation,…

Non-cortex labels:
Use ANTS to transform labels in MNI152 to subject space and combine
with cortical label volume. Currently building a (BrainCOLOR protocol)
noncortical atlas.

Replace FreeSurfer gray matter fill:
Previously, surface labels were converted from .vtk to .label to .annot
before using mri_aparc2aseg. Now we use the PropagateLabelsThroughMask
function within ImageMath in the ANTS package. Mindboggle calls this
within fill_volume_with_surface_labels() after placing the .vtk
labels/scalars in a volume with transform_to_volume().

Remove protocol directory:
We have consolidated the label protocol information originally stored
as .txt files in the labels/protocol directory as lists in a new
label/protocol.py file.

Fix transforms:
The FreeSurfer mri_vol2vol command was not putting ugh data in subject
space as expected, so replaced with mri_convert -rl…

Clean up nipype pipeline:
In addition to removing some FreeSurfer dependencies, all nodes exist
within a single workflow and there are fewer nodes in the workflow. For
example, the volume_per_label() function was altered so that it would
not have to be called twice to construct the label volumes table.


Former-commit-id: 0d6802d6f2d3629ba9a1dd005bae60aaecc32f1c

doc/faq/why_mindboggle.rst, after:

.. _mindboggle-faq:

======
 Why?
======

.. _purpose:

Purpose
-------

The purpose of Mindboggle is to improve the accuracy, precision, and
consistency of labeling, feature extraction, and shape analysis of brain
imaging data, and to promote open science by making all of our data, software,
documentation, and publications freely and openly available.


.. _motivation:

Motivation
----------

There is a strong tendency for neuroscientists who are not software developers
to assume that questions of brain image "preprocessing", including registration
and labeling, have been satisfactorily resolved or are not even worthy of mention
([carp2012]_).  We believe that conventional methods do not establish 
reasonable correspondences across brain images and threaten to undermine the 
credibility of the science and the scientists who use them in the service of 
answering the neuroscientific and clinical questions that interest them.

.. [carp2012]
   Carp, J. (2012) *The secret lives of experiments: 
   Methods reporting in the fMRI literature*. NeuroImage, 63(1), 289–300.
   doi:10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.07.004


.. _history:

History
-------

Back in 1998, `Arno Klein`_ left Caltech to visit Cornell Medical School for a summer
to learn a bit about human brain imaging.  Within a day of arriving in New York, 
he witnessed two medical students arguing over what regions of a patient's brain 
were active according to fMRI BOLD data printed on some sheets of paper.
To do this, they compared locations of BOLD signal in the young man's 
brain with what appeared to them to be corresponding topographical locations 
in the 2-D slices of a dead, 60-year French woman's half cerebrum from 20 years prior,
the venerable Talairach atlas.  That clinched it.
Arno stayed on to create the initial Mindboggle software package in Matlab
as part of his doctoral dissertation.

In 2007, Arno was invited to join the faculty at Columbia University
to continue its development, whereupon he started writing proposals.

In 2009, with generous funding from the National Institute of Mental Health
(3-year NIMH R01 #MH084029), he assembled a team to tackle the problem anew.
People who have contributed to the codebase during this period include:
 
    - Forrest Sheng Bao
    - Joachim Giard
    - Yrjö Häme
    - Eliezer Stavsky
    - Satrajit S. Ghosh

In 2012, the NIMH funded a 1-year U01 supplement to expand this work to 
integrate multiple imaging modalities (fMRI and dMRI) with the structural MRI 
shape analysis.  After `Arno Klein`_ moved to Stony Brook University,
more collaborators joined the Mindboggle `team`_. The `Github repository`_
has since been opened to the world to foster wider collaboration.

.. include:: ../links_names.txt
