doc/people.rst, before:

.. image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/group/forrest_joachim_arno_yrjo_TastyDeli.jpg
.. image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/group/conference1.jpg
.. image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/group/conference2.jpg

+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
| **Members of the          |
| Mindboggle Team**         |
|                           |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
| |picAK|    | |blurbAK|    |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
| |picFB|    | |blurbFB|    |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
| |picJG|    | |blurbJG|    |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
| |picSG|    | |blurbSG|    |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
| |picNN|    | |blurbNN|    |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
| |picMR|    | |blurbMR|    |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
| **Past contributors**     |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
| |picYH|    | |blurbYH|    |
+------------+--------------+
| |picES|    | |blurbES|    |
+------------+--------------+


.. |picAK| image:: http://media.binarybottle.com/images/ArnoKlein.jpg
                    :width: 200px
.. |blurbAK| replace::
    `Arno Klein`_ (CV_) directs two groups at `Sage Bionetworks`_ in Seattle:
    Neuroimaging, which analyzes biomedical image data, and SIMPL(E),
    which seeks and interprets meaningful patterns and latent explanations
    in data. Arno is particularly excited about imaging and visualization
    of complex information. He is actively involved in a range of `projects`_,
    including visual taxonomies, Indian cave temple documentation,
    and is coordinating open science challenges.


.. |picFB| image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/ForrestBao.jpg
                    :width: 200px
.. |blurbFB| replace::
    `Forrest Bao`_ is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical
    and Computer Engineering at the University of Akron in Akron, Ohio.
    While a postdoctoral associate working from Texas Tech University,
    Forrest developed algorithms to extract sulcus features for Mindboggle.


.. |picJG| image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/JoachimGiard.jpg
                    :width: 200px
.. |blurbJG| replace::
    Joachim Giard of Sony, Belgium, worked on the Mindboggle project
    as a postdoctoral researcher of electrical engineering at
    UCL, Belgium. He has been developing algorithms for computing shape measures
    on surface meshes for Mindboggle, including travel depth, the topic of his PhD research.


.. |picSG| image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/SatrajitGhosh.jpg
                    :width: 200px
.. |blurbSG| replace::
    `Satrajit Ghosh`_ is a Research Scientist in the Research Lab of Electronics at MIT.
    Satrajit is developing the software pipeline framework, NiPype_, 
    that we are building Mindboggle in.  
    Satra's research areas include brain imaging, neuroanatomy, software engineering 
    and speech communication.  


.. |picNN| image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/NolanNichols.jpg
                    :width: 200px
.. |blurbNN| replace::
    `Nolan Nichols`_ is a PhD candidate in Biomedical and Health Informatics at the University of Washington. 
    Nolan is developing the informatics infrastructure underlying Mindboggle using a Semantic Web 
    technology stack that explicitly models data provenance​.
    He is excited about the translational aspects of the Mindboggle project, 
    and finds this effort to be a nice complement to his thesis work in the areas of 
    semantic data integration and sharing of human neuroimaging data.


.. |picMR| image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/MartinReuter.jpg
                    :width: 200px
.. |blurbMR| replace::
    `Martin Reuter`_ is Instructor in Neurology at Harvard Medical School 
    (Massachusetts General Hospital) and works on computational methods for spectral shape analysis, 
    image registration and processing of longitudinal brain MRI data implemented in FreeSurfer. 
    His research interests include computational neuroimaging, computational geometry and toplogy. 
    Mindboggle's Laplace-Beltrami spectra code is a Python port of Martin's Matlab version. 
    Martin has helped the team to develop and evaluate this spectral shape measure.


.. |picYH| image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/YrjoHame.jpg
                    :width: 200px
.. |blurbYH| replace::
    Yrjo Hame is a graduate student in the Biomedical Engineering Department
    of Columbia University.  Yrjo wrote the Hidden Markov Measure Field algorithm
    for extracting sulcus features from brain images for Mindboggle.


.. |picES| image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/EliezerStavsky.jpg
                    :width: 200px
.. |blurbES| replace::
    Eliezer Stavsky is a graduate student of Neurobiology and Behavior at Columbia University.
    Eliezer worked on spectral shape analysis and semi-supervised learning approaches to
    propagate labels across a brain surface.


.. include:: ./links.txt

Commit message:

Update README file (esp. antsCorticalThickness.sh). Add Elias Chaibub Neto to People page.
Former-commit-id: 3ef8133e814b9e396148e37b2a85bcd1d21530ee

doc/people.rst, after:

.. image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/group/forrest_joachim_arno_yrjo_TastyDeli.jpg

  .. image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/group/conference1.jpg
  .. image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/group/conference2.jpg

==============================================================================
People working on Mindboggle
==============================================================================

+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
| |picAK|    | |blurbAK|    |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
| |picEC|    | |blurbEC|    |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
| |picJG|    | |blurbJG|    |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
| |picSG|    | |blurbSG|    |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
| |picNN|    | |blurbNN|    |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+

==============================================================================
Past contributors
==============================================================================

+------------+--------------+
|            |              |
+------------+--------------+
| |picFB|    | |blurbFB|    |
+------------+--------------+
| |picYH|    | |blurbYH|    |
+------------+--------------+
| |picES|    | |blurbES|    |
+------------+--------------+
| |picMR|    | |blurbMR|    |
+------------+--------------+


.. |picAK| image:: http://media.binarybottle.com/images/ArnoKlein.jpg
                    :width: 200px
.. |blurbAK| replace::
    `Arno Klein`_ (CV_) directs two groups at `Sage Bionetworks`_ in Seattle:
    Neuroimaging, which analyzes biomedical image data, and SIMPL(E),
    which seeks and interprets meaningful patterns and latent explanations
    in data. Arno is particularly excited about imaging and visualization
    of complex information. He is actively involved in a range of `projects`_,
    including visual taxonomies, Indian cave temple documentation,
    and is coordinating open science challenges.


.. |picEC| image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/EliasChaibubNeto.jpg
                    :width: 200px
.. |blurbEC| replace::
    Elias Chaibub Neto is a Senior Scientist at `Sage Bionetworks`_.
    He is currently working with Arno to perform a statistical analysis
    of shape measures computed on all labels and features generated by Mindboggle.


.. |picFB| image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/ForrestBao.jpg
                    :width: 200px
.. |blurbFB| replace::
    `Forrest Bao`_ is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical
    and Computer Engineering at the University of Akron in Akron, Ohio.
    While a postdoctoral associate working from Texas Tech University,
    Forrest developed algorithms to extract sulcus features for Mindboggle.


.. |picJG| image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/JoachimGiard.jpg
                    :width: 200px
.. |blurbJG| replace::
    Joachim Giard of Sony, Belgium, worked on the Mindboggle project
    as a postdoctoral researcher of electrical engineering at
    UCL, Belgium. He has been developing algorithms for computing shape measures
    on surface meshes for Mindboggle, including travel depth, the topic of his PhD research.


.. |picSG| image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/SatrajitGhosh.jpg
                    :width: 200px
.. |blurbSG| replace::
    `Satrajit Ghosh`_ is a Research Scientist in the Research Lab of Electronics at MIT.
    Satrajit is developing the software pipeline framework, NiPype_, 
    that we are building Mindboggle in.  
    Satra's research areas include brain imaging, neuroanatomy, software engineering 
    and speech communication.  


.. |picNN| image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/NolanNichols.jpg
                    :width: 200px
.. |blurbNN| replace::
    `Nolan Nichols`_ is a PhD candidate in Biomedical and Health Informatics at the University of Washington. 
    Nolan is developing the informatics infrastructure underlying Mindboggle using a Semantic Web 
    technology stack that explicitly models data provenance​.
    He is excited about the translational aspects of the Mindboggle project, 
    and finds this effort to be a nice complement to his thesis work in the areas of 
    semantic data integration and sharing of human neuroimaging data.


.. |picMR| image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/MartinReuter.jpg
                    :width: 200px
.. |blurbMR| replace::
    `Martin Reuter`_ is Instructor in Neurology at Harvard Medical School 
    (Massachusetts General Hospital) and works on computational methods for spectral shape analysis, 
    image registration and processing of longitudinal brain MRI data implemented in FreeSurfer. 
    His research interests include computational neuroimaging, computational geometry and toplogy. 
    Mindboggle's Laplace-Beltrami spectra code is a Python port of Martin's Matlab version. 
    Martin has helped the team to develop and evaluate this spectral shape measure.


.. |picYH| image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/YrjoHame.jpg
                    :width: 200px
.. |blurbYH| replace::
    Yrjo Hame is a graduate student in the Biomedical Engineering Department
    of Columbia University.  Yrjo wrote the Hidden Markov Measure Field algorithm
    for extracting sulcus features from brain images for Mindboggle.


.. |picES| image:: http://media.mindboggle.info/images/people/EliezerStavsky.jpg
                    :width: 200px
.. |blurbES| replace::
    Eliezer Stavsky is a graduate student of Neurobiology and Behavior at Columbia University.
    Eliezer worked on spectral shape analysis and semi-supervised learning approaches to
    propagate labels across a brain surface.


.. include:: ./links.txt
